Lint Rule for catching common secret related env/arg keys (#5105)
moby/buildkit: frontend/dockerfile/docs/rules/secrets-used-in-arg-or-env.md

---
title: SecretsUsedInArgOrEnv
description: Potentially sensitive data should not be used in the ARG or ENV commands
aliases:
  - /go/dockerfile/rule/secrets-used-in-arg-or-env/
---

## Output

```text
Potentially sensitive data should not be used in the ARG or ENV commands
```

## Description

> While it is common in many local development setups to pass secrets to running
> processes through environment variables, setting these within a Dockerfile via
> the `ENV` command means that these secrets will be committed to the build
> history of the resulting image, exposing the secret. For the same reasons,
> passing secrets in as build arguments, via the `ARG` command, will similarly
> expose the secret. This rule reports violations where `ENV` and `ARG` key names
> appear to be secret-related.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is common to pass secrets to running processes
through environment variables during local development,
setting secrets in a Dockerfile using `ENV` or `ARG`
is insecure because they persist in the final image.
This rule reports violations where `ENV` and `ARG` keys
indicate that they contain sensitive data.

Instead of `ARG` or `ENV`, you should use secret mounts,
which expose secrets to your builds in a secure manner,
and do not persist in the final image or its metadata.
See [Build secrets](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/secrets/).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This should explain that build secrets or SSH forwarding should be used instead to configure build with sensitive credentials in a secure way. Example can show build secret in action. We can link to https://docs.docker.com/build/building/secrets/ for extra reading.

cc @dvdksn
